
King Leo I spent his thirty year reign consolidating power over the
middle realm of the island, and extending its sphere of influence into
the northern regions. While northern politics were dominated by a
handful of warlords, King Leo had been able to establish active and
mutually beneficial trade routes into the region. Leo's kingdom was
able to offer both food and access to year-round maritime ports, in
exchange for magical artifacts and skills from the north. These trade
routes also provided cover for an extensive network of spies
throughout the north, giving Leo's kingdom unique visibility into the
politics of the region.

The situation to the south was considerably more tenuous. There were
active skirmishes with dwarvish forces along a border defined mainly
by virtually impassable terrain. The few people who had been to the
south described a population that seemed both primitive and
hostile. The political structure was unclear. Some reports indicated
the presence of mining activities.

Domestically, Leo I's kingdom was generally peaceful and
content. Leo's consolidation of power had reduced the conflicts that
had been previously common to the area, and left and era of relative
peace. The climate had also been favorable, leaving plenty of food,
including a surplus for trade with the north. Toward the end of Leo's
reign, he started building a new castle to symbolize his newfound
power and act as a seat of government.

====

Leo I died in his sleep at the relatively young age of 49, leaving his
28 year old first born son to ascend the throne as King Leo II. Due to
his father's young age, Leo II's reign was immediately plagued by
rumors that he or one of his allies in the court had poisoned his
father. Further, within a year, conflicts within the north had
erupted, compromising both Leo II's trade with the region and creating
internal tension within his own kingdom as citizens torward the
northern border worried about the risk of instability spilling over
southward. To deflect from the rumors surrounding his own rise to
power, and take advantage of the northern instability, Leo II broke
with decades of formal peace, raised an army and pushed into the
north. After some initial setbacks, the invasion effectively pushed
all the way to the northern sea, unifying the northern areas into
Leonine control. The northern population integrated well into the
whole, both because they were grateful for what looked like additional
political stability and also in that they spoke the same language as
the rest of the kingdom.

The northern conquest quickly established Leo II's reputation as a
decisive and effective ruler. While he was still beset by occasional
rumors that he had poisoned his father, the general opinion within the
court was that if he had done it, the end result had been worthwhile.
Leo II's domestic agenda was mainly centered around the work required
to normalize the administration of the north. This included extension
of various government agencies into the north, as well beginning
construction of a northern castle as the seat of the provincial
government. By twenty years into his reign, the work of integration
was mostly complete, and Leo II's belief was that he had brought the
kingdome into a new era of general prosperity.

However, as the work of unifying the kingdom proceeded, a growing
resentment emerged within two factions of the population. The first
were the Northerners that resented the loss of what they viewed as
their local soverignty to southern aggressors. The establishment of
the northern provincial government seated at the north castle was
intended to placate this group, but for the hardliners it was not
enough. When the extent of the pre-unification spy network became
known, this group took it as a sign that the Leonine kingdom had
always been double dealing with the intent of the conquest of the
north. The second faction centered around the elements of Leo II's
court that still viewed his claim to the throne as fatally
flawed. While Leo II had not, in fact, murdered his father, this group
believed that he had and therefore did not believe he was the valid
ruler. Over time, these two groups converged into a single underground
resistance to Leo II's rule.

In the meantime, word had emerged from the South of the likely
presence of certain valuable resources within their borders. Gold had
started to appear some of their mines, and some of their biome
contained ample quantities of magical reagents needed by northern
magical industry. Leo II started gathering the support of his privy
council to invade the south. He viewed the invasion as a worthwhile
risk, but wanted political cover in case it went badly. Cast as an
effort to bring Leonine enlightnment to the backwards south, Leo II's
forces started pushing south in a bloody and difficult battle.

While the invasion was ultimately successfull, the costs in personnel
and resources were extremely high, and undermined Leo II's strength at
home. 









